---
description: The economic incentives received by Network Relayers and Delegators
---

# Economic incentives

{% hint style="danger" %}
This page is still under construction
{% endhint %}

## The economic roles of Relayers and Delegators

Relayers and Delegators play essential roles in the Sustainability Hub. They invest skills, time and resources into making this network viable and to grow the services and data economy that is built on this network. 

Sustainability Hub Relayers and Delegators receive a **revenue-share** for relaying services to users of the network and **staking rewards** for processing transactions and securely operating validator nodes.

#### Relayers

Relayers are \*\*

The work performed by relayers includes:

* Operating Validator Nodes to provide the computational infrastructure for the network.
* Providing market channels for connecting users to the network and relaying services to these users. This includes offering market support and value-added services.
* Participating in governance of the network by submitting proposals and voting on proposals relevant to the independent operation of the network.
* Operating web and mobile portals that connect users to the network and to the marketplace of services offered through the network.
* Hosting Cell Nodes as a service to users of the network.
* Building, offering and maintaining additional products and services into the network marketplace.

#### Delegators

Delegators are \*\*

A Delegator is a third-party IXOS token-holder who may choose to lease their assets to secure the network. This helps achieve a sufficient level of stake bonded into Validator Nodes for the network to be more secure. 

The work performed by delegators includes:

* 
## Revenue-share

  




## Staking rewards

### Validator node bonded proof of stake

The Sustainability Hub is a Bonded Proof of Stake \(bPOS\) blockchain network. This means the network is economically secured by assets which are staked as security and  performance bonds. \(Read more about how the Tendermint Bonded Proof of Stake mechanism works\).

Staking offers economic incentives for network operators to run reliable validator node computational infrastructure. Staking also incentives third-party Delegators to provide their assets as collateral for this mechanism, which increases the total value of assets bonded into securing the network. 

The total value of independently bonded assets and distribution of stakeholders with a stake determines how secure the network is against economic attacks. Bad actors must be economically prevented from attempts to take over the network. 

Staking also penalises poor performance. Penalties are automatically incurred \(through a stake slashing mechanism\) if Validator Nodes compromise the security of the network in various ways, such as going offline for extended periods of time. 

### **Transaction fee rewards**

Each transaction processed by the validator network incurs a `gas fee` which compensates validators for operating the infrastructire which provides this message processing and data storage service. Fees are paid using the IXO payment token. Fees are distributed to validators in proportion to their stake. 

Each Relayer receives Rewards from operating its validator node. Network rewards are distributed in proportion to stake. 

### Block inflation rewards

Block Inflation is a mechanism for incentivising network stakeholders to stake IXOS assets to secure the network.

Rewards are generated by the blockchain protocol. The Sustainability Hub operates a unique protocol for calculating these rewards. New IXOS tokens are only minted as rewards when the network economy grows. The rewards minting algorithm is designed to target an annualised financial return on the value IXOS. This financial return is the share of all oracle revenues generated through the Sustainability Hub which gets distributed to Relayers and their Delegators.

{% hint style="info" %}
To illustrate the principle of Staking Rewards, consider the following hypothetical scenario:

100 Relayers, together with their Delegators, have a combined stake of 1,000,000 IXOS bonded to secure 100 Relayer Nodes in the network.

A Block Reward distribution of 1,000 IXOS is made. This gives each staked IXOS an allocation of `1,000 / 1,000,000 = 0,001 IXOS`.

The number of staked IXOS can vary between Validator Nodes. The Reward distribution is made in proportion to the proportion of staked IXOS. So in this example, if a Relayer and their Delegator has a combined number of 1,500 IXOS staked in a Validator Node, they would receive `1,500 * 0,01 = 1.5 IXOS`

The Delegator receives the same proportional distribution of IXOS Block Rewards as a contribution for leasing their assets. However, a Relayer who operates the validaotr node into which the Delegator stakes may deduct a percentage fee from this reward distribution, as they incur the overhead costs of running the node infrastructure. Each Relayer decides on their own commission fee, but a typical fee is in the region of 8-10%.
{% endhint %}

#### 

